## Final Project reflection
Developing my final project 'The Playist for Betrayal' has been a challenge. Coming into this class I had never coded anything in my life before, and a lot of the jargon used was jibberish to me. I definitely struggled with getting the mechanics of my piece to work on my own. To make matters worst, I caught COVID towards the pivotol end of the semester, which set me back two weeks on my project.
I enjoyed the challenge of planning and writing a story through Twine, as the structre required was different to anything I had written before. I found it enjoyable to write a story in second person which directly addressed the reader, ommitting any identifying features of characters, and having all the characters be annonymous. I spent a lot of time trying to figure out how to make my music choice work with the narrative of the story, rather than be a distraction. This required me to find software that allowed me to cut and trim songs, and to edit their volume, as to not have the music too loud for the reader. I also had to consider how to make sure the reader read my Twine story with music in the way I intended. Through debating with myself, I ended up including an instructions page of sorts at the start of my story, to direct the reader to wear headphones, and to not have their volume loud. I concluded this was the best way to ensure that the reader heard each song. Through the HTML coding, I was able to auto loop each song, to ensure that the music played in time with the reader, and that if they didn't finish reading the passage in time with the music, the song would just loop and keep playing. My song choice was purposeful, and was intended to match the effects of the story, with each song relevant to what was happening in each scene. The songs used are meant to be perceived as if the reader themselves is at the party, and are hearing those songs played on a party speaker. I found audio files that had muffled music, giving the percpetion that the listener was in a differnt room to where the music was playing, and I thought this would give the perfect effect for when the protagonist is outside of the house. 
My idea of having music be a part of the reading experience was soemthing I had been toying with for a while, so I found it very rewarding and enjoyable to see this idea finally get actualised through a new skill I had learnt. 


## Reflection on class and practise
I found this class very challenging, as coding is not something I had ever been familiar with. It was both a fun and stressful experience. It was rewarding when I did understand something, and to see random characters on my screen tranform into a digital piece of writing. 
I enjoyed the discussions and debates that occurred in the class room that really made me think about writing as a whole, such as the debate on hypertext fiction versus video games. 
It was interesting to see the works that already exist in the digital and electronic literature sphere. To me, a lot of them seemed to not focus on story at all, but rather, the experience of reading the story, and how to interact with the story. This was a big contrast to my own usual practise of strongly focusing on story when writing traditional print forms. 
It is hard to say where my own practise and my final Twine piece fits into this field. In the works we studied, very little had such a heavy music focus as mine does. I also made the decision to use only copyrighted music, which makes my piece unpublishable. Music was the most prevlanet in the Bitsy works we looked at, which I perceived as closer to video games than electronic literature works. A lot of the pieces we study involved reader interactivity, where what the reader clicks on and interacts with determines the outcome of the narrative. I used Twine mostly for the purposes of incorporating music, rather than having a choose-your-own-adventure story where their are multiple directions the reader could take the narrative. 


## Peer feedback
For my final project I asked my peers Gerard Starling and Lauren Hobday to provide feedback on my work.

Gerard's feedback was:
'Concept works! Just do a quick edit for some spelling (bass not base) and some overuse of commas that could be condensed into a shorter sentence!'

Lauren's feedback was:
'Concept is working well and it definitely has an atmosphere about it. I especially love the sections where the music is muffled and feels distant/second to the importance of what is happening in the story. (And on a personal level I must congratulate you on an excellent selection of songs!)
My only real suggestion is to maybe condense some of the longer sections/sentences, just so the reader isn’t met with a wall of text. And other than a quick grammar and spelling check the story has clear and concise direction that reads well.'

In terms of Lauren's feedback, I actually decided agaist condensing the longer sections of my work. My alternative to her suggestion was to separate my longer passages into two, giving the reader shorter paragraphs on each passage. I also decided against this, as my structure for the Twine was to have each passage be one scene, with one distinct song, and one main plot point. I thought that by condensing this, or breaking up the passages would wreck my structure and the effect of the narrative as a whole. My aim of the piece was also not to have a quick, short attention span, short paragragraph story. But rather write a short story with longer form paragraphs per scene, like I would if this were a print form. I view my Twine piece as a short story for the reader to read in linear order from start to finish. 
It was helpful to hear that my concept worked, as this was my main worry. Although the music volume and loop worked for me, it was helping hearing from other readers that it wasn't too distracting, and that the use of images also worked. 




